---
title: "📌 Azure Practice Exam "
parent: "• AZ-104"
grand_parent: "• Azure Certificate"
grand_grand_parent: "• Azure"
grand_grand_grand_parent: "4. Cloud Platforms"
nav_order: 9
has_children: true
---


You have an Azure subscription that contains a virtual network named VNet1.

You plan to deploy a virtual machine named VM1 to be used as a network inspection appliance.

You need to ensure that all network traffic passes through VM1.

What should you do?

Select only one answer.

Configure a user-defined route.

This answer is correct.

Create a virtual network gateway.


Modify the default route.


Modify the system route.

Azure automatically creates a route table for each subnet on an Azure virtual network and adds system default routes to the table. 
You can override some of the Azure system routes with custom user-defined routes and add more custom routes to route tables. 
Azure routes outbound traffic from a subnet based on the routes on a subnet's route table.

---

You have an Azure subscription that contains two resource groups named RG1 and RG2.

RG1 contains the following resources:

A virtual network named VNet1 located in the East US Azure region
A network security group (NSG) named NSG1 located in the West US Azure region
RG2 contains the following resources:

A virtual network named VNet2 located in the East US Azure region
A virtual network named VNet3 located in the West US Azure region
You need to associate NSG1.

To which subnets can you associate NSG1?

Select only one answer.

the subnets of all the virtual networks


the subnets of VNet1 only


the subnets of VNet1 and VNet2


the subnets of VNet3 only

This answer is correct.
You can assign an NSG to the subnet of the virtual network in the same region as the NSG and NSG1 is in the West US region.

---

You have an Azure virtual network that contains four subnets. Each subnet contains 10 virtual machines.

You plan to configure a network security group (NSG) that will allow inbound traffic over TCP port 8080 to two virtual machines on each subnet. The NSG will be associated to each subnet.

You need to recommend a solution to configure the inbound access by using the fewest number of NSG rules possible.

What should you use as the destination in the NSG?

Select only one answer.

an application security group

This answer is correct.

a service tag


the subnets of the virtual machines

Application security groups allow you to group together the network interfaces from multiple virtual machines, and then use the group as the source or destination in an NSG rule. The network interfaces must be in the same virtual network.

You can use the IP address of each virtual machine as the destination, but you must create a rule for each virtual machine.

Using the subnets will require four rules and will also allow traffic to all the virtual machines on those subnets.

Service tags are for specific Azure services, such as Azure App Service or Azure Backup.

---

You create several Azure virtual machines that run Windows Server.

You need to connect to the virtual machines without exposing RDP ports over the internet.

Which Azure service should you deploy?

Select only one answer.

Azure Bastion

This answer is correct.

Azure Front Door


Azure Network Watcher


Azure Virtual Desktop

Azure Bastion is a service that lets you connect to a virtual machine by using a browser, without exposing RDP and SSH ports. 
Azure Monitor helps you maximize the availability and performance of applications and services. Azure Network Watcher provides tools to monitor, diagnose, view metrics, and enable or disable logs for resources in an Azure virtual network. 
Remote Desktop is a feature of the operating system, which exposes the RDP port to connect to a server from the internet.

---

You have three network security groups (NSGs) named NSG1, NSG2, and NSG3. Port 80 is blocked in NSG3 and allowed in NSG1 and NSG2.

You have four Azure virtual machines that have the following configurations:

VM1:

Subnet: Subnet1
Network card: NIC1
NIC1 is associated with NSG2.
VM2:

Subnet: Subnet1
Network card: NIC2
NIC2 is associated with NSG3.
VM3:

Subnet: Subnet3
Network card: NIC3
NIC3 is associated with NSG3.
VM4:

Subnet: Subnet2
You have the following subnets:

Subnet1 is associated with NSG1.
Subnet2 is associated with NSG3.
Subnet 3 does not have an NSG associated.
Which virtual machine can be accessed over the internet on port 80?

Select only one answer.

VM1

This answer is correct.

VM2


VM3


VM4

On VM1, both NSGs assigned to Subnet1 and the NIC1 card allow traffic on port 80. On VM2, NSG1 allows traffic, but NSG3 blocks traffic for the network interface. On VM3 and VM4, NSG3 blocks traffic.

---

Your company plans to migrate servers from on-premises to Azure. There will be dev, test, and production virtual machines on a single virtual network.

You need to restrict traffic between the dev, test, and production virtual machines to specific ports.

What should you use?

Select only one answer.

a network security group (NSG)

This answer is correct.

an Azure firewall


an Azure load balancer


an Azure virtual network

This answer is incorrect.
Must configure network security group (NSG) rules to allow TCP or ICMP traffic for specific ports. Azure Firewall is a managed service that protects your Azure services across multiple virtual networks. Load balancers are used to distribute incoming traffic to available backend servers. Azure VPN is used to have a connection establishment between on-premises and Azure.


---

You have an Azure subscription that contains an ASP.NET application. The application is hosted on four Azure virtual machines that run Windows Server.

You have a load balancer named LB1 that load balances requests to the virtual machines.

You need to ensure that site users connect to the same web server for all requests made to the application.

Which two actions should you perform? Each correct answer presents part of the solution.

Select all answers that apply.

Configure an inbound NAT rule.


Set Session persistence to Client IP.

This answer is correct.

Set Session persistence to None.


Set Session persistence to Protocol.

This answer is correct.
By setting Session persistence to Client IP and Protocol, you ensure that site users connect to the same web server for all requests made to the application. Setting Session persistence to None disables sticky sessions and an inbound NAT rule is used to forward traffic from a load balancer frontend to a backend pool.

---

You have web app that is running in four Windows Server Azure virtual machines behind a load balancer.

Users experience issues when accessing the web app. You suspect an issue with the web server and must check whether the server is listening on port 80.

Which command should you run?

Select only one answer.

Get-AzVirtualNetworkUsageList


nbtstat -c


netstat -an

This answer is correct.

Test-NetConnection localhost

This answer is incorrect.
Using netstat -an will list the ports that the server is listening on. Test-NetConnection will perform a ping/ICMP test. Nbtstat -c checks the NBT cache. Get-AzVirtualNetwork gets the virtual networks in a resource group.

---

You have an Azure subscription.

You plan to implement four Azure virtual networks that will be peered. All virtual machines will use a DNS suffix of contoso.com.

You need to configure name resolution for the virtual networks to ensure that all the virtual machines can communicate by using their FQDNs. The solution must minimize administrative effort.

What should you use?

Select only one answer.

a DNS server on an Azure virtual machine


an Azure Private DNS zone

This answer is correct.

an Azure public DNS zone


Azure-provided name resolution

Azure Private DNS allows for private name resolution between Azure virtual networks. Azure public DNS provides DNS for public access, such as name resolution for a publicly accessible website. Azure-provided name resolution does not support user-defined domain names and only supports a single virtual network. A DNS server on a virtual machine can also be used to achieve the goal but involves much more administrative effort to implement and maintain than using Azure Private DNS.