---
title: "📌 Cloud Concepts"
parent: "• AZ-900"
grand_parent: "• Azure Certificate"
grand_grand_parent: "• Azure"
grand_grand_grand_parent: "4. Cloud Platforms"
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
---


## 1️⃣ Describe Cloud Concepts (25–30%)

### 1.1 Cloud Computing Fundamentals

* Define cloud computing
* Shared responsibility model
* Cloud models: Public, Private, Hybrid

* Use cases for each cloud model

### 1.2 Cloud Economics & Architecture

* Consumption-based model
* Cloud pricing models comparison
* Serverless computing concept

### 1.3 Benefits of Cloud Services

* High availability & scalability
* Reliability & predictability
* Security & governance
* Manageability

### 1.4 Cloud Service Types

* Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
* Platform as a Service (PaaS)
* Software as a Service (SaaS)
* Use cases for IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS

---

=====================================


# Module 1: Describe cloud computing

## Define cloud models

Private, Public, Hybrid cloud, Multi-cloud

Azure Arc - Azure Arc is a set of technologies that helps manage your cloud environment. Azure Arc can help manage your cloud environment whether it's a public cloud solely on Azure, a private cloud in your datacenter, a hybrid configuration, or even a multi-cloud environment running on multiple cloud providers at once.

Azure VMware Solution - What if you’re already established with VMware in a private cloud environment but want to migrate to a public or hybrid cloud? Azure VMware Solution lets you run your VMware workloads in Azure with seamless integration and scalability.


## unit: Describe the consumption-based model

When comparing IT infrastructure models, there are two types of expenses to consider. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operational expenditure (OpEx).

CapEx is typically a one-time, up-front expenditure to purchase or secure tangible resources. A new building, repaving the parking lot, building a datacenter, or buying a company vehicle are examples of CapEx.

In contrast, OpEx is spending money on services or products over time. Renting a convention center, leasing a company vehicle, or signing up for cloud services are all examples of OpEx.



## Learning objectives cloud models

Define cloud computing.
Describe the shared responsibility model.
Define cloud models, including public, private, and hybrid.
Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud model.
Describe the consumption-based model.
Compare cloud pricing models.

========================================================

# Module 2: Describe the benefits of using cloud services

Learning objectives


Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud.

Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud.

Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud.

Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud.


# High availability

Scalability - Scaling generally comes in two varieties: vertical and horizontal. Vertical scaling is focused on increasing or decreasing the capabilities of resources. Horizontal scaling is adding or subtracting the number of resources.

Vertical scaling - With vertical scaling, if you were developing an app and you needed more processing power, you could vertically scale up to add more CPUs or RAM to the virtual machine. Conversely, if you realized you had over-specified the needs, you could vertically scale down by lowering the CPU or RAM specifications.

Horizontal scaling- With horizontal scaling, if you suddenly experienced a steep jump in demand, your deployed resources could be scaled out (either automatically or manually). For example, you could add additional virtual machines or containers, scaling out. In the same manner, if there was a significant drop in demand, deployed resources could be scaled in (either automatically or manually), scaling in.


# Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud

Reliability: Reliability is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function. It's also one of the pillars of the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.

The cloud, by virtue of its decentralized design, naturally supports a reliable and resilient infrastructure. With a decentralized design, the cloud enables you to have resources deployed in regions around the world. With this global scale, even if one region has a catastrophic event other regions are still up and running. You can design your applications to automatically take advantage of this increased reliability. In some cases, your cloud environment itself will automatically shift to a different region for you, with no action needed on your part. You’ll learn more about how Azure leverages global scale to provide reliability later in this series.

Predictability: Predictability in the cloud lets you move forward with confidence. Predictability can be focused on performance predictability or cost predictability. Both performance and cost predictability are heavily influenced by the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework. Deploy a solution built around this framework and you have a solution whose cost and performance are predictable.

Performance: Performance predictability focuses on predicting the resources needed to deliver a positive experience for your customers. Autoscaling, load balancing, and high availability are just some of the cloud concepts that support performance predictability. If you suddenly need more resources, autoscaling can deploy additional resources to meet the demand, and then scale back when the demand drops. Or if the traffic is heavily focused on one area, load balancing will help redirect some of the overload to less stressed areas.

Cost: Cost predictability is focused on predicting or forecasting the cost of the cloud spend. With the cloud, you can track your resource use in real time, monitor resources to ensure that you’re using them in the most efficient way, and apply data analytics to find patterns and trends that help better plan resource deployments. By operating in the cloud and using cloud analytics and information, you can predict future costs and adjust your resources as needed. You can even use tools like the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) or Pricing Calculator to get an estimate of potential cloud spend.

# Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud

# Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud

Management in the cloud

Through a web portal.
Using a command line interface.
Using APIs.
Using PowerShell.

==========================

# Describe cloud service types

Learning objectives

Describe infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
Describe platform as a service (PaaS).
Describe software as a service (SaaS).
Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud service (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS).


## Shared responsibility model

Some common scenarios where IaaS might make sense include:

Lift-and-shift migration: You’re setting up cloud resources similar to your on-prem datacenter, and then simply moving the things running on-prem to running on the IaaS infrastructure.
Testing and development: You have established configurations for development and test environments that you need to rapidly replicate. You can start up or shut down the different environments rapidly with an IaaS structure, while maintaining complete control.

## Describe Platform as a Service

Some common scenarios where PaaS might make sense include:

Development framework: PaaS provides a framework that developers can build upon to develop or customize cloud-based applications. Similar to the way you create an Excel macro, PaaS lets developers create applications using built-in software components. Cloud features such as scalability, high-availability, and multi-tenant capability are included, reducing the amount of coding that developers must do.
Analytics or business intelligence: Tools provided as a service with PaaS allow organizations to analyze and mine their data, finding insights and patterns and predicting outcomes to improve forecasting, product design decisions, investment returns, and other business decisions.

## Describe Software as a Service

Some common scenarios for SaaS are:

Email and messaging.
Business productivity applications.
Finance and expense tracking.
